# Terraform

We are using Terraform for cloud.gov deployment. The previous approach to deployment used shell scripts and was error prone and not easily modifiable for e.g., gradual updates to environment services.

Terraform has a [cloudfoundry](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/cloudfoundry/cloudfoundry/latest/docs) provider. This provider works well with cloud.gov environments, with the exception of service credential bindings (cloud.gov does not support the cloudfoundry v3 API for service credentials). We also utilize cus[terraform-cloudgov source](https://github.com/gsa-tts/terraform-cloudgov)
[terraform-cloudgov wiki](https://github.com/gsa-tts/terraform-cloudgov/wiki).

## Installation

Using `brew` to install Terraform will install version `1.5.7` due to licensing issues and this is too old for our purposes. We want to install the latest Terraform using `brew tap`:

    brew tap hashicorp/tap
    brew install hashicorp/tap/terraform

Please ensure that your version is at minimum `1.10`. We might switch to OpenTofu at some point.

## Structure

For maintaining Terraform state, we have set up a S3 bucket in the `weathergov-mgmt` space. This space is configured specifically for bootstrapping (more about this below). We also provide a `terraform.sh` wrapper script to help invoke terraform on cloud.gov resources.

As an example, to `apply` terraform changes to the `test` space, run:

    ./terraform.sh -e weathergov-test -c apply

This command will look for a `weathergov-test.tfvars` configuration. Every environment you deploy to will require a corresponding `tfvars` file that stores terraform variables (such as `rds_plan_name`). Variables have sensible defaults, but at a minimum you need:

- `cf_space_name`: the name of the space you wish to deploy within
- `env`: this should be an unique name and is used for identifying resources within the space, e.g., `api-weathergov-foo.app.cloud.gov`, `weathergov-s3-foo`, etc. If there is only one deployment per space,  this should be set to the same variable as `cf_space_name`.
- `space_developers`: a list containing these developers who should have access to these resources, including yourself.

You can also copy over or look at `sandbox-test.tfvars` as a minimum example. The `variables.tf` file has all of the different variables (and its defaults) that you can configure.

Terraform will also look for a `credentials-$env.json` file locally in order to inject these variables as a user provided service to the application. Specifically, these variables are available:

- `django_secret_key`: (required). This can be autogenerated using `uuidgen`.
- `sp_public_key`: for SAML SSO integration; leave blank for all environments except production. Must be base64 encoded, if provided.
- `sp_private_key` for SAML SSO integration; leave blank for all environments except production. Must be base64 encoded, if provided.
- `allowed_ips` an array of IP addresses that are allowed to upload weather story images and situation report PDFs; leave blank for all environments except production.

These variables will then be available in the running environment in the `VCAP_SERVICES` environment variable, under `user-provided[0].credentials`.

### Django/Wagtail

Configured via `app.tf`. The `forecast/` directory (excluding build artifacts) is zipped and uploaded as a cloudfoundry app to the configured space. Please do not change the `app.tf` file if you want to modify the parameters of the Django/Wagtail app; instead, override these variables in your `tfvars` configuration, such as `interop_url`, `web_instances` and `web_memory`.

### API interop layer

Configured via `api.tf`. Similarly to the app, the `api-interop-layer` directory (excluding build artifacts) is zipped and uploaded as a cloudfoundry app to the configured space. Currently, it is not recommended to set `api_interop_memory` below `256M` as this will likely cause OOM errors.

### Logshipper

Configured via `logshipper.tf` and sets up a log drain to export logs to a S3 bucket for external analysis. For production environments only.

## cloud.gov specific configurations

In `main.tf` we have modules that are specific to cloud.gov itself. As mentioned before, these use the [`terraform-cloudgov`](https://github.com/gsa-tts/terraform-cloudgov) Github repository and are used to cleanly define an app space, database, domain, and s3 bucket within cloud.gov, rather than treating these as generic cloud foundry service instances.

## Bootstrapping

The `bootstrap/` directory is a minimal import of cloud.gov resources for the `weathergov-mgmt` space. In particular, a S3 bucket (imaginatively named `weathergov-terraform-state`) is used to, well, hold terraform state for all of the terraform deployments. Access to this S3 bucket is needed in order to sync terraform information across developers and automatic deployer users, so some form of bootstrapping is needed.

The `weathergov-mgmt` space also has all of the `space-deployer` service accounts as users, since they need to read/write Terraform state in order to deploy to their respective spaces.

The `terraform.sh` script may call bootstrap functionality in order to grab S3 bucket credentials and (optionally) deployment credentials.  Please note that while running `terraform.sh`, `weathergov-terraform-state` credentials are (temporarily) stored into `secrets.backend.tfvars` and then injected into the Terraform state. Since this file is unneeded afterwards, it is removed.

`imports.tf` has the ids of the various resources we need to bootstrap. Running `./apply.sh` in this directory will import these resources and allow us to use the S3 bucket for syncing terraform state.

Before running `./apply.sh`, you must add yourself to the `developer_import_map`. To figure out the GUID of your role requires some manual spelunking: see below.

## GUID discovery via cloud.gov

This is of use only for bootstrapping, but if you do need to find a GUID from within a cloud.gov environment, you will have to use the `cf curl` command for the appropriate resource. Some GUIDS can be retrieved via explicit flags, e.g.:

     cf org nws-weathergov --guid

But most `cf` invocations do not accept such flags. Obtaining GUIDs is therefore sometimes a manual process. For bootstrapping, to get your user role GUID, first get your user GUID using the `weather_mgmt` space GUID, which we already have in `imports.tf`:

    cf curl /v3/spaces/f8937e7b-2fa0-4e89-958b-452211a73aff/users | jq ".resources[] | select (.username==\"james.tranovich@noaa.gov\").guid"

Once you have your user GUID, then you will need to search `/v3/roles` for your user GUID and space GUID. This arcane command should do the trick:

     cf curl /v3/roles?user_guids=<your_user_guid_here>&space_guids=f8937e7b-2fa0-4e89-958b-452211a73aff | jq ".resources[] | select(.type==\"space_developer\").guid"

## Sandbox bot

The `sandbox-bot/` directory is used by the `terraform.sh` script wrapper to retrieve automatic deployment account credentials for CI/CD purposes. If a new environment (not staging or production) is created, the sandbox-bot terraform setup will also generate the deployment user itself. In either case, the `secrets.auto.tfvars` file will be auto-generated with the deployment credentials for the given space.
